.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH KCOV-MERGE 1 "November  24, 2011"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
kcov-merge \- Merge code coverage data from multiple kcov output directories
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kcov-merge
.RI [ options ] " outdir dir1 [dir2...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This manual page documents briefly the \fBkcov-merge\fP command. \fBkcov\-merge\fP is a
utility to merge the code coverage data gathered from multiple
\fBkcov\fP output directories.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fP, \fB\-\-help\fP
Display help message and exit
.TP
\fB\-l\fP, \fB\-\-limits\fP=\fIlow,high\fP
Setup limits for low/high coverage (default: 25,75).
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Generate aggregate coverage from ./kcov1 and ./kcov2 directories and
generate HTML output in ./kcov-aggregate.
.PP
.RS
kcov-merge ./kcov-aggregate ./kcov1 ./kcov2
.RE
.RE
.SH HTML OUTPUT
.PP
The HTML output shows a summary of the executed and non-executed lines
aggregated from each of the individual kcov output directories.  It
also shows coverage data for each file/binary included in any of the
individual kcov output directories.
.SH COBERTURA OUTPUT
.PP
\fBKcov-merge\fP also outputs data in the Cobertura XML format, which allows integrating kcov-merge
output in Jenkins (see http://cobertura.sf.net and http://jenkins-ci.org).
.PP
The Cobertura output is placed in a file named out-path/cobertura.xml.
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Kcov was written by Simon Kagstrom, building upon bcov by Thomas Neumann.
.PP
Kcov-merge was written by Chris Love.
